# Governance Structure

## Governance Structure

## DAO

The protocol consist of two token types, SSN (governance token) and sCCY (stable coin token). Both tokens are convertible between each other. The SSP will be governed by a Stability DAO. The governance token includes voting rights for the Stability DAO, which is responsible for the monetary policy of SSP. Governance is exercised by way of voting. The voting mechanism will have a diversified system, relying in the base layer on a the lack of objection to be sufficient for an issue to pass if the Stability Advisory Committee were asked for advice ( e.g. if a specific voting topic were to be consulted with the Stability Advisory Committee and did not attract a sufficiently large quorum above 5 The founding team will not have specific powers beyond their stake and the power to nominate 3 members to the Stability Advisory Committee. The authority of the founding team will otherwise rely on its belivability by contribution while the formal role of the founders will be of representational character without a veto or similar special control rights ensuring the decentralized nature of the protocol.

## Stability Advisory Committee

The stability DAO will include a Stability Advisory Committee. This committee will be initially established by assignment. The number of members will be 10. The members will be the most believable members of the DAO. Following initial assignment of the members all decisions of SSN holders will be recorded and evaluated against the aim a decision sought to achieve. If the aim is achieved, those who voted for a proposal will get belivebility prove marks. If a decision is not leading to the desired outcome or no vote is taken, no marks accrue to an ordinary DAO member. If the voter is an advisory committee member, voting that does not achieve a desired outcome or no vote at all, leads to a slashing of belivebility prove marks by 10%. If a vote passed by lack of objection and is subsequently reversed by a new vote, all members of the committee are slashed by 10% of their beliveability marks as they failed to recognise or articulate an important issue. The voters with the highest number of marks accrued after one year will join the Stability Advisory Committee, that is elected for one year. The committee will publish a guidance on every vote due, setting out the risks and benefits from its perspective and make a recommendation of not more than 3 pages for a vote showing transparently, which members of the committee are supporting and which are rejecting a proposal. DAO members are free to follow the recommendation. Committee members will be compensated in sCCY depending on the number of DAO members voting (participation rate) and their believability marks. If the vote is in line with a recommendation from the committee or a specific member does not matter. The Stability Advisory Committee will have the power to set votes they regard as highly relevant on a high quorum list requiring a higher quorum to be achieved for the vote to be valid. The criteria for such list will be defined separately.

## Development Foundation in Switzerland

The DAO will endow a foundation with the purpose of administering a development fund that will be set aside, upon inception of the SSP and will receive donations from the DAO whenever a surplus is accrued, as a portion of 10% of such surplus. The funds will be used in accordance with the foundation charter for development of the SSP and related projects. Similar off-chain structures may be set up with a similar purpose in other jurisdictions, if so agreed upon by the DAO with off-chain requirements to be appropriated for by the founding team as required by applicable law.

## Legal Compliance

At current stage, no license requirement exists targeting a DAO, as it is not operating out of a specific jurisdiction, that could claim to apply its regulations as a reflection of the principle of state sovereignty. The stablecoin, as it is designed, has mainly utility value as an aggregated unit of account, that does not by its nature invite for regulation for various reasons at its core, but will likely require adjustment at its edges depending on the applications it is made part of.

The core, an entirely on-chain collateralized protocol, does not fall under a specific regulation per-se, according to the current state of law. Regulations will affect the SSP in accordance with specific customer facing, or local applications, and use cases, that fall under specific regulations. Such regulations may have indirect limited effect for the respective jurisdiction and service providers, requiring adjustments in the SSP or discretionary collaboration with the respective service providers, to enable the use of SSP within the application concerned. The situation is changing and varies depending on the application and jurisdiction concerned. We will continue monitoring the development within the legal space and follow a flexible design approach to allow for adjustments together with respective partners for regulatory compliance, where such adjustments become necessary. Such a concept can be described as regulation on the edges of activity, or indirect impact regulation management.
